I watched some video's on youtube searching for Life as an IT professional to be able to gain an insight into the day to day running in the industry I will link the video's below.

The first person talks about what he does on a day to day basis.

Works with Microsoft products like windows, windows server, and runs a ticketing system for IT related problems.

The tasks he does is checking tickets, going out in the field making user accounts and account management with access and active directory.

Day to day life varies and no day is the same he sumarises that he is an IT services technician and pretty much does everything.

The second person started his IT career in the navy and describes how even if you don't have a technological background you still need to learn how to use computers.

He studied IT at university and it was more about theory where as being in the navy it was more hands on.

He works in the customer service department where he helps customers troubleshoot their problems at home for an internet service provider.

Helping people get back online and setup their own home networks and collates with various departments in the company to help customers with their problems.

He communicates with customers and has to work out which department is needed to solve the issue as may need to send a field technician to customer's premises or if it's a network problem.

His key skills would be: Customer service, working in a team, Communication, Problem solving, to help customers get back to using their service as quick as possible.

The third person I viewed is a software engineer who works for a company that is a home services supplier.

Her work is more to being web developement and explains that their backend systems is written in python and the front end or website is html java and css.

The team she works in writes alot of code and in a fast paced environment where they push and implement it into their various systems then go back and kill all the bugs with their code.

Her knowledge would be able to fluently write html java and css along with python and other various programming languages.

Video links:

Vid1: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=om8AygYdrto

Vid2: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PCmkTcFYrX8

Vid3: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vt79JcPfZQA