Please see below for my answer for this task.

Name: Dane Callaghan. I'd also like to nominate Rav for to oversee this task. After the discussion in this post around Rav's skills and Rav offering to do it, I think he would be the best fit. I'm looking forward to learning from Rav's skills, thanks Rav!

The link to group website: Following Jon's lead, I have created a new folder on my personal repo called "Assignment 2/Group Work". For now, while I figure out how to more efficiently use GitHub, I'll save my ongoing work in that folder so everyone can see it and use it as needed. Thanks to Jon for the instruction on this!

The link to your group's Git repository (GitHub): I also followed Jon's lead here too. I have downloaded GitHub to my desktop. I also instigated a discussion in the Canvas forum to establish what the groups plans are for creating and accessing our group repository. This week I will endeavour to watch as many tuts as possible to ensure I can contribute effectively to the assignment.

How well the audit trail on the Git repository reflects the group's work?: As we are still discussing the details of creating the repo, I can't really comment yet. Given how well we are all contributing to the forum here, I imagine that it will cover it effectively. Maybe we can have a dedicated page that documents our comments in a timeline fashion? I followed a similar process for group work in a previous subject, and it worked well.

 

Jon - Above you have written " Overall of Task 2 - Tools: My Git Repository is now link into Group Git Repository. I have made a personal file folder in the repository for my work effort".

How have you done this if we haven't currently got a group repo? Is this just stating what you're going to do once it's set up? Just asking cos I'd like to follow the same process, just unsure how you've actually done it, haha!

Note - I'll have a text file in my personal repo for the task one report. I'm going to start working properly on it now (3:40am) using everyone's info. I'll just keep it as basic text for now, I figure the HTML wizard (Rav) can help us format it later?

Also, I'm keen to get together with everyone for a group chat as suggested by Jaime. I think this will help us all get a clearer picture of what we want to achieve, and how we are going to tackle everything. It will also expedite the time for everyone's understanding (mainly for my benefit there, haha!). The best time for me is early on the weekends or after 7pm BNE time through the week as I work full time.

Thanks again to everyone for the help. I was a bit worried about having a group assignment at first, but I feel better after talking with you all, so thanks!

Dane.