I created a task for everyone to provide their comments on the group work we did.

Here is everyone's reponses:

Rav's Comments:
What went well
We were all focused on the assessment so everyone was contributing equally to all parts of the project as we went along. None of us were shy in asking and commenting on what needed to be complete for each part of the project. One of your members, Jon, took it upon himself to lead the group and divided each part of the assessment into Tasks and appointed Overseers through a vote. It not only helped us get started but also started a conversation on what we needed to do.

What could be improved 
We relied on using Canvas to organise all the information in the group for the tasks that we needed to complete for the assessment. The way it’s set up however is difficult to follow and it’s hard to see who is commenting on something without having to scroll though a lot of messages. I think we could have used an external group conversation tool that would allow easier organisation for conversations around tasks.

At least one thing that was surprising
The fact that, despite our time differences, we were able to communicate effectively and move on through the project to reach our reach our goal of completing the assessment. Without the tools available to us through today’s technology this would not be possible.

At least one thing that you have learned about groups
I think working in a group can sometimes be challenging as usually there is a quite a big task that needs to be completed with everyone’s collective assistance. Effective communication, therefore, is an important factor when it comes to working in a group setting; whether that is getting everyone to focus on the task at hand or asking for help with a certain part of the project. 


Dane's Comments:
• What went well:
I think everyone had a desire to be part of the team, which resulted in all of us pulling our weight in regards to completing tasks.
There wasn't any arguments from anyone, and there wasn't any major disagreements in regards to process. I think that's a major part of the group running so smoothly. Also the early leadership from Jon. Jon took the initiative and created posts that got the group going early. Reading some of the issues that some groups have been having in regards to people not communicating or participating, I think the fact the we all worked together went very well.

• What could be improved:
I think as a group we can find better ways to communicate. That isn't an attack either, I just felt sometimes it was hard to understand what people
meant, or what was required for certain tasks. I also found it hard to follow discussion threads, and see people's responses in the threads.
I also saw evidence of other people having the same issue, as some responses were not where we would expect them to be. Aaron even went to the length of creating a thread specifically for himself as it was difficult for him to find what he needed to do. I still think we communicated very effectively given what we have been able to achieve, I just think we could benefit from finding improvements.

• At least one thing that was surprising:
I was really pleasantly surprised with how well the group worked together. We have all heard the horror stories of group assignments being
a nightmare with people not participating, or if there are power struggles within the group. I was surprised that this wasn't an issue at all.
I think that's a credit to everyone in our group. Being able to work effectively with strangers and build working relationships is an extremely valuable skill to have.

• At least one thing that you have learned about groups:
I have learned that everyone in the group may work differently and that compromise and patience are needed to work effectively. We all
have lives outside of study and it's important to occasionally remind ourselves that workflow may not go as we hoped. I learned that the
most important thing for a group is undoubtedly communication. I believe that whether the group can communicate effectively will determine the group's success.


Damian:
What went well:

As a group we worked really well together what we have achieved over the last few weeks has made me feel pretty proud of what we have done. To be honest at first I was a bit nervous about group work as in the past it never turns out well but Jon taking the leadership role made sure that was not the case and had us working all together by splitting the assignment up into separate tasks like a modular form.

What could be improved:

We were pretty reliant with canvas and I think for beginners it can be a little bit confusing and or daunting to get started with, even though it is a great tool and works fairly well I think there are some other alternatives we would be able to use in the future. Using something like discord could be quite beneficial as we would be able to communicate a bit more with eachother on there and it is available on mobile devices also making it easier if you need to get hold of someone quickly.

At least one thing surprising:

To be honest I was nervous about group work but the way our group worked went well has made me feel a bit more confident about it, even though there were differences in time we still managed to work really well together to achieve what we needed and wanted to I couldn’t be any prouder right now.

At least one thing you have learned about groups:

Group work can be difficult at times but the way Jon handled this to make sure we were getting things done was exceptional, he made sure we were communicating effectively and setting tasks and overseers for each task using a voting method I have never really liked group work in the past but I have warmed up to it a little bit now with the way we worked together.


Jaime's Comments:
1. What went well

The level of organization of my colleagues, helped to complete the required tasks.
The communication was key, to solve our doubts, canvas was used to carry the sequence and other tools.

2. What could be improved

In my case Canvas should improve because at times I lost myself in the publications, without taking the order of my tasks,
I know that it has been difficult in my case, for labor issues and language.

3. At least one thing that was surprising

What seemed to me the most was the level of help that my companions gave to the moments of meeting with doubts.

4. At least one ting that you have learned about groups

I know that it is hard to work in a group, starting with finding the time when we are all free, the group managed well
and the objectives were achieved


Jon's Comments:
What went well
The team members really did well in work effort of responding on each task discussion. Feedback & suggestion are great brainstorming items for inputs and how to make the assessment in working order. Thanks to Rav and Dane as they kept the team in right direction. Willingness of everyone keep the team moving.

What could be improved
As we just being familiar in Canvas and this become quite challenging to the team. I could see the Canvas is powerful tool for us, we just need to know how to use it effectively. I suggest that standard rules of use of Canvas can be beneficial to keep things organised. The Announcement in Canvas can be use for updates, follow ups and task status and then the Discussion should only be use for Task allocation,  votes, giving suggestions that related to the task and should not be used for general communication like (Faq’s, uploading reports, comments not related to the task), the team should have particular communication tools like What’s up, messenger tools or Allocated Discussion Article FAQ’s. Also, to mention the file compilation is really challenging as everyone have different approach of how to provide their answers and responses. It could be more appropriate if the members follow the instruction closely and do the task as the same way of other members do, as uniformed format.

At least one thing that was surprising
Surprisingly, despite of time differences of each members we still manage to communicate effectively toward completion of the assessment. I could see that having own workspace is good but also open to members could really be challenging for having big chance of losing files but because the team are cautious of what potential could happen, they really work complementing each other.

At least one thing that you have learned about groups
I learned that working with a team using online communication is possible and effective. And also, as a team player we do need to put the effort as the same level of other members do because it will be so hard for someone to catch up and missing a lot of items for submission. 

How well the audit trail on the Git repository reflects the group's work?

“I have seen that all members do their best to give work efforts to complete the group Assessment 2. They created their own workspace folder to put all their work items. They keep the folder files organized. We could see who has updated their folders recently and we can easily check and find out what items are new. We reduce the error changing items when every team member become the owner of the repository. Members of the team are all aware of how crucial to editing someone's workspace. On this method, we build team trust in accordance with complimenting each other.”




Summary of all responses:

What went well
Everyone thought that the group's willingness to complete the assignment and everyone's communication was the cornerstone for the success of the assessment. Credit to Jon and Dane to keeping everyone on track with each part of the assessment and to everyone else's for participating with the discussion and successful completion of each part. 

What could be improved
Despite everyone communicating to the best of their ability, the entire group felt that the tools we used were somewhat lacking in some aspects of communication. Canvas was our primary tool for talking about everything, from the tasks we needed to complete to submitting content, so in the future we plan on incorporating a messaging platform to allow for easier communication. We will still use canvas for announcements and organising tasks, but for any ongoing discussions will be done through the messaging platform.

At least one thing was surprising
Two things were mentioned for this answer. One was the despite everyone's different work styles we were still able to work together effectively. The other was that, despite our different locations and work timetables we were, again, still able to work cohesively. We have all heard group assignments going awry but, and this is a testament to our abilities in many ways, we managed to be respectful of each other and understand what needed to be done without much prompting. 

At least one thing that you have learned about groups
Everyone gained some valuable insights into working in a group, the most notably being effective communication will always solve a lot of the problems. Without effective communication, we definitely wouldn't have gotten everything we needed done in a timely manner.