Autonomous Vehicles

What does it do? What is the state of the art of this new technology? What can be done now? What is likely for it it to be able to do soon(say in the next 3 years)? What technological or other developments make this possible?

Autonomous Vehicles have in the recent years been at the forefront of the car industry often associated to be the future of cars. With computers becoming more and more reliable, the next progressive step in the car industry seems to be going electric/hybrid technology and to have vehicles with autonomous functionality. 

Autonomous vehicles are cars that are able to navigate their terrain with minimal or no input from the driver. This means that the vehicles are able to navigate differing traffic conditions, weather conditions as well as navigating all roads while keeping other motorists and from harm. Autonomous vehicles have 5 levels, starting at level 0 which is no automation whatsoever, to Level 5 which is a fully autonomous vehicle able to navigate all road conditions with no input from the driver(expect of course the destination). 

Autonomy is achieved by having several different technologies working together to create a working recognisable image of the world to which the computer can use to navigate the vehicle accordingly. Different companies employ various environment detection technology like radar, lidar, sonar, GPS, inertial measurement units, ultrasonic sensors as well as a network of cameras surround the vehicle to create a highly accurate map of the world around the vehicle. The computer then interprets the visual data to detect various road conditions like road lines, signage, other motorists, traffic lights and vehicle speed to steering, accelerate and decelerate according to what it sees. The algorithms it follows allow it to predict circumstances before they happen and also to react faster than any human could in a potentially hazardous situation.  

Many of the large motoring companies have taken the leap now including BMW, Mercedes, Nissan, Ford and even tech companies are getting on board as well like Google and more recently Apple. There are event companies that have been created solely to produce autonomous driving vehicles like Waymo and Yandex. Perhaps at the forefront of prevalently available technology is Tesla, as they have had a lot of success with their electric cars, offering a level of autonomous driving across all their models. 

If we take Tesla as an example for what is currently possible, the car itself has the hardware capability to drive at the highest autonomous level(SAE Level 5) with eight cameras around the vehicle and twelve ultrasonic sensors, in addition to forward facing radars and enhanced processing capabilities. This hardware is not activated as yet since Tesla wants to make sure that they have as much real world data first before sending the over-the-air update to provide the autonomous functionality. Currently, using the existing hardware from vehicles on the road, they are collecting the necessary data to make the correct improvements to release the update to the public in the near future. Other car manufactures are also developing similar technologies to implement into their cars but the Tesla’s vehicles are miles ahead because of the data they’ve collected from real world experience. Waymo, Yandex and Renault are companies that have also achieved Level 5 autonomy but they don’t have any production vehicles available currently, only test vehicles. 

In the next 3 years, we should be able to see full autonomous vehicles being released by every large and small car manufacturer in the world. We are already at the cusp of the motor industry changing and slowly we will see more and more automated vehicles on the road without drivers. The one thing that would be impeding its progress is the governments legislation and policies that govern autonomous vehicles which, to some extent, be adopted globally. Until that time, we are going to see vehicles, like Tesla’s vehicles, that have the capability to be fully autonomous but not utilised as yet or perhaps cars that have Level 1 to 3 autonomy on the roads that drivers can take advantage of as soon as its available.

Technological improvements that would aid in the improvement of processing visual data would be A.I. If an efficient model can be created that allowed perfect dependability for interpreting visual data, it would greatly increase the policy adoptive rate of global governments. As is the case, the more data the A.I has sorted through the more efficient it will be. Therefore sufficient amounts of data should be processed before implementing them into a car’s computer for maximum success.

What is the likely impact? What is the potential impact of this development? What is likely to change? Which people will be most affected and how? Will this create, replace or make redundant current jobs to technologies?

Autonomous vehicles will have a huge impact on everyone’s life as its used by everyone to some capacity. Parents use their cars to get to work and drop their children at school, taxi services take people from one point to another and buses and trains transport large groups of people to designated locations. If we assume that in the next few years we do attain true autonomy in vehicles it will mean a variety of changes for people’s lifestyles, depending on how the use of autonomous vehicles are implemented into society.

For instance, if a family were to own an autonomous vehicle their morning and evening commute could be entirely different. In the morning, of course, everyone would travel together to their destinations but since no one would be driving, they could catch up on work or talk to each other instead. After driving to each destination, the car can then be tasked to do something else. This could be anywhere from asking the car to pick up packages or groceries from the store or perhaps picking up some ride fares while everyone is working. The car could even be asked to pick up and drop off the children at home when it’s time for them to go back home and then go to pick up the parents from work at the appropriate time.

When speaking about benefits, the one that is talked about the most is safety and traffic improvements. Safety in the form of reduced human-error related accidents and aggressive driving, when autonomous vehicles are fully capable will mean that we might see a handful or no death tolls at all. Since there is no human error, the vehicles will be able to move at higher speeds and in close proximity to each other, therefore affecting our travel time and experience. There are various other benefits like lower premiums for insurance and lower impact on the environment like many prevailing technologies there are also disadvantages. The most immediate threat it causes is to the taxi services, namely local taxi companies, Uber and Lyft. A lot of immigrants rely on this as income when they first enter the country, taking their jobs away will mean they have to look for employment elsewhere, adding extra pressure to their lives. Ethics also comes into play as well. A case could be made that while humans are slower at reacting to road situations, they might be able to make better ethical decisions based on the circumstances of the situation i.e in a collision involving a baby and an elderly person and one had to be sacrificed who would be saved?

How will this affect you? In your daily life, how will this affect you? What will be different for you? How might this affect members of your family or your friends?

As a consumer of a product I think it would greatly benefit my day to day life. From going to work I would be able to relax and enjoy my commute, maybe even get started on my day by replying to some emails without having to worry about traffic. This would leave me refreshed and ready to start the day. I could use it on a ride fare service to make me some extra money or perhaps pick up something or someone for me while I am at work. Furthermore, when going on long trips with friends, I would be better able to enjoy their company while getting to my destination.

I think that my family would also feel the similar benefits to myself, as well as a calmer sense of mind knowing that their child is safe travelling on the road. In addition we might share one vehicle with the three of us, rather than paying for and owning a vehicle each.

The one thing that I might miss is being in control of a vehicle. I think as a choice, the autonomous car should accommodate a steering wheel for recreational use and as a fail safe. Although going on long journeys might be a chore, to some extent there is a sense of enjoyment that comes from accelerating and turning the vehicle. I think that many people who enjoy driving would feel the same way, as driving is more than something they have to do, its more a hobby to them. 

Sources: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-driving_car