" SOFTWARE / SOLUTION ARCHITECT "

Reported by: Jon 
What kind of work is done by the Solution Architect?
Article Comments: 
REF Article 1: [.] “Not all solutions architects do architect work.” Architects tend to be more involved with the overall design of the project, and not so much with the simpler implementation tasks, which is more for engineers. In day to day of a (SA)Architect may fall on reviewing existing environments, planning new ones, traveling abroad, building huge infrastructure for massive companies, doing migrations, writing scripts, scripting infrastructure, taking exams, studying, all sorts. Some (SA)Architect may require travel. (SA)Architect might be exposed working on troposphere CloudFormation environments, scripting code deploy and Jenkins integrations, writing python scripts using BOTO to create new VPCs and link with VPNs dynamically, building RPMs, chef cookbooks for application deployment, you name it. 
REF Article 2: [.] Most Solution Architect (SA) will be involved in management discussions whenever new project proposal or requirements come to the team or company. He is responsible for giving inputs on time is taken for project completion, risks, complexities, resources required, manpower required, etc.  His inputs are most valuable to management to take the decisions for any projects.  Management will try to leverage his knowledge to take important project decisions.
My Comments:
“In my observation Solution Architect and Engineer are totally in a different area, however, they are always related to each other. You can either do the same position but always different ways and just related. In my investigation Solution Architect can attain training in AWS Amazon Web Services and have certification. The most business using this cloud computing platform to utilize for their growing business to manage their interaction with their clients producing analysis and report as AI application minimizing paper works and workload for producing reports to all department of the business. This is not requirements for Solution Architect rather a helping hand to do the role with high-quality performance especially if you are working along with the business have data server structure in AWS. I notice that the Solution Architect always-on design, planning, and management. Solution Architect brainstorming knowledge throughout the team. Even Solution Architect is not on hands-on duties but should always have wide knowledge in various different methods which really helps the team produce high quality and productive product. “
-	Jon Ara
What kinds of people does the Solution Architect interact with? 
Article Comments:
REF Article 1: [.] Most Solution Architect (SA) “focus on a specific set of products and therefore don't have specific customers, but most have dedicated customers”. The list of duties for a customer depends on that customer's current level of AWS adoption. In the beginning, it involves a LOT of intro talks with lots of teams. 
REF Article 2: [.] Solution Architect (SA)keeping knowledge sharing with team members and newcomers. Helping team during project deliveries and follow up with other teams for whatever required to deliver the project on time.
My Comments:
“I notice that Solution Architect does not have much hands-on interaction with costumer rather just have a role of making sure that the team produces what is requires and making the product in the highest level of quality for their costumer. In my investigation, most of the time the Interviewer or Business consultant are the one engaging on the process getting information from the client to pass onto the team and then Solution Architect will make a plan how to built the product item per item involving Software Engineer in the process. Solution Architect is more involved with the team enhancement, follow-ups, and progress of the project meaning the Solution Architect are always interacting with the people who have the same field desire of Information Technology.”
-	Jon Ara
Are they also other IT professionals? Clients? Investors? The general public?
Article Comments:
REF Article 1: [.] Most Solution Architect require source knowledge or pre-sales work meaning outsourcing the other methods outside the company’s capabilities.  Solution Architect often interacts with mixed teams, so you learn how to quickly answer high-level questions on a variety of topics. Later on, as the customer takes their first steps, it may involve POCs, whiteboard sessions, and collaboration with an implementation team (either internal or external to the customer). The career outlook for Solution Architect is fantastic and lots of opportunities internally and externally. Sourcing from LinkedIn interest, even without actively promoting some of the massive worldwide companies that Solution Architect worked with.
REF Article 2: [.] A Solution Architect does sync up calls with onshore teams for anything (project related, issues follow up, customer related issues, knowledge transfer, future projects discussions and follow up project road maps, etc).
My Comments:
“I notice that Solution Architect can be a client because most of Solution Architect have may build lots of portfolios specializing in a particular area in the IT industry. Other Solution Architect may engage to other Solution Architect to get their project done, meaning they can also be in the general public as an observer.”
-	Jon Ara
Where do the Solution Architect spend most of their time?
Article Comments:
REF Article 1: [.] Most Solution Architect is generally on the sales side of the house. They know a ton about AWS and different use cases and best practices but they don't normally get into the thick of the project. They spend a lot of time designing the best case and trying to crystal ball what it will cost.
My Comments:
“In my observation Solution Architect most involved in planning case to case bases and making the team achieving the target goal and not as hands-on duties like the Software Engineer rather an organizer or planner which have wide knowledge in a different type of methods and platforms that includes knowledge to all new development available in the market. In my investigation Solution Architect always outsourcing new ideas from different types of IT department to create a new product that will help to provide the requirements on the project.”
-	Jon Ara
What aspect of their position is most challenging?
Article Comments:
REF Article 1: [.] It’s easy to let yourself get out of shape, and it’s your responsibility to come up with little projects to get hands-on practice with a new service or feature (and you really do need to do this - without getting hands-on it’s WAY too common to think that something can be easily done when in fact it’s difficult or impossible, or just simply not the right way to do it). Technically that’s part of your job, but of course, just keeping all the various balls in the air and context switching between customers takes up the whole day if you let it, so time management skills are critical.
My Comments:
“In my observation Solution Architect have limited area in developing his skills for hands-on building the product but what makes him to be a good Solution Architect should then know all available methods or platform in building their product, so meaning still have to take knowledge intake and be updated as much as possible be skilled like the Software Engineers who actually involved in creating the product. In my investigation, the Solution Architect can also be a Software Engineer as they are closely working to each other. It is up to the person how to enhance their skills in the technical aspect of Information Technology skills.”
-	Jon Ara

References:
REF Article 1: [ https://www.reddit.com/r/aws/comments/44rt9p/solution_architects_what_is_a_day_in_the_life_like/ ]
REF Article 2: [ https://www.quora.com/What-are-the-day-to-day-activities-of-a-software-architect






http://www.first30days.com/blog/main/2014/03/a-day-in-the-life-of-an-it-professional/

A Day in the Life of an IT Professional
Have you ever wondered what it takes to be a successful IT professional? Technical knowledge is important, but it’s only the first of an IT pro’s tools. Each day, experts in information technology face complex business challenges. 
To get an idea what it’s like behind the scenes, let’s take a look at a day in the life of an IT professional.
1) Inept Customers
In most enterprises, the information technology team runs a help desk for solving user problems. Little do users realize that many of the technical problems they encounter have the same cause: Them. IT professionals need to quickly diagnose each issue and apply the most efficient solution. Plus, they must provide excellent customer service even in cases where the user’s own lack of knowledge might be the culprit.
2) Information Security
Some users could stand to brush up on their computer skills, but at least they mean well. Sadly, that’s not true of everyone the IT pro runs into! The corporate network can come under attack at virtually any time thanks to hackers or rogue software. These threats unfold rapidly, in real time, as the perpetrator seeks to gain access to the network and spread harm. During an attack, an IT pro might be called upon to use dozens of tools in a matter of minutes to protect sensitive data.
3) Meetings, Meetings, Meetings
When the network isn’t under siege, just how can an IT pro demonstrate his or her value to the boss? Information technology specialists are constantly faced with this challenge. Not everything IT does is a “profit center” for their employer, so each cost has to be justified. Unfortunately, it can be difficult to explain many aspects of IT to non-technical supervisors, project managers or executives. To counter this, an effective IT pro is always strengthening his or her communication skills.
4) Orchestrating the Cloud
Nowadays, many global enterprises operate strictly using cloud computing. Adopting a cloud-based network means that all crucial business data should be available to users whenever they need it and no matter where they are or what device they’re on. This is becoming increasingly popular with the growth of dropbox, Salesforce, and other cloud-based companies. The fact that users can access data anywhere introduces a host of thorny issues. For example, how can you be sure that each user’s personal computer or phone is secure enough to be on the network? IT pros must continuously expand access to data while building new infrastructure to ensure policy compliance.
5) Staying Ahead of the Curve
No matter how big or small the business, one thing is for sure: Decision-makers expect and demand the latest technology. Upgrading software, whether it’s something as simple as a word processor or as complex as Windows, can be an enormous task. The entire effort needs to be strategized, justified and executed just right — ensuring that no one loses network access or critical files.
6) Building Skills For the Future
More than any other business professional, those in information technology are in a constant race to keep their skills updated. In many cases, this means continuously studying for new industry credentials. IT pros are faced with a selection of hundreds of certifications that cover various aspects of information technology. Allowing any certification to lapse can endanger future prospects. Plus, new and updated certifications come out on a regular basis.
7) Balancing Today’s Duties and Tomorrow’s Advancement
The most dedicated information technology pros are known for devoting hours upon hours to honing their skills. The constant pace of new breakthroughs puts them at risk of burning out if they try to do too much. While it’s a good idea for IT pros to specialize, they are often called upon to resolve problems outside their set of skills. Finding a unique niche that adds strategic value to an organization is vital to any IT pro’s long-term success.
Information technology is constantly evolving, and IT as a whole is challenging work. When technology fails, IT professionals must quickly resolve issues that cost money with each passing minute. The next time you call up the IT team, remember that the job is tougher than it looks!


If you felt moved, inspired, touched, helped, annoyed, or anything after reading this, please let us know. Our wonderful bloggers really do appreciate your comments and feedback. It’s super easy and takes a minute. Click on comments below.


https://programs.online.utica.edu/articles/moulden-info-security-interview
A Day in the Life of an Information Security Professional
 
Get an inside look into the careers you may be interested in as a graduate of Utica's BS or MS Cybersecurity programs. Learn from this insider interview with Information Assurance Analyst Steve Moulden
Tell us about yourself and what you do.
I am a Navy veteran with 20 years of experience in the Information Technology field. I completed my BS of Information Technology focused on Computer Forensics and my MS of Information Technology focused on Internet Security. I currently work as an Information Assurance Analyst as a contractor. I have several certifications, including CompTIA Security+, and I am awaiting results of my CISSP. The Security+ certification is a great way to get your foot in the door as well. My next certification will be Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH).
Describe the typical duties/functions/responsibilities of your job and what an average day is like.
I spend a good portion of my day reviewing security architecture and design diagrams detailing ports, protocols. I also conduct and analyze vulnerability scans and develop mitigation strategies per FISMA, DIACAP and Department of Defense IA and CND regulations, processes and technical requirements (based on who needs which regulation). I also develop, review and analyze DIACAP packages and other C&A documentation in accordance with the accreditation process (DIACAP). Additional duties include training personnel in security best practices.
Can you tell us about a special or cool project that you worked on that is a great example of what you do?
I am the lead for a product called CIAMS, which is basically an IA Toolbox for site security managers providing patch management, log management, and centralized backup for small- to medium-sized networks. It has been delivered to several Department of Defense sites for use in simulators. I get to fly simulators, drive ship simulators and test them after our work is complete.
Why did this type of work interest you, and how did you get started?
I had managed smaller networks when I was in the Navy (primarily with aircraft squadrons) as one of my many hats I wore as a sailor. When I left the Navy in 2006, I only had an associate degree and was fortunate enough to work in the IT field as a Technical Support Specialist for a local municipality. I started college again in 2008 and completed my BS in 2009, followed by an accelerated program, allowing me to complete my MS in 2010. I was able to network my way to the position I now hold as a contractor.
What are most important skills for a position in this field?
Good communication skills are always a must. Documentation is a major part of what we do for our customers. A strong technical background of hardware, operating systems and networks are also required. Skills in troubleshooting, problem solving, research and multitasking are also highly recommended.
How well did your college experience prepare you for this job?
Without holding many certifications, having a college degree oftentimes is the "foot in the door" leading to a new job. Having a degree definitely plays a part later in the career when it comes to promotion opportunities.
What courses have proved to be the most valuable to you in your work?
My computer forensic courses and security design courses. Overall, all of my courses were beneficial, as many involved technical papers requiring much research. If you only use one book for a class, most likely you may be missing something you need. Research, research and research followed by documentation, documentation and documentation!
What part of this job do you personally find most satisfying? Most challenging? What do you like and not like about working in this industry?
I get to travel and work in various parts of the country. The satisfaction of knowing that I am a major part of securing our country's assets is a great motivator. The most challenging part is keeping abreast of the constantly changing vulnerabilities and how to effectively remediate them, as well as keeping up-to-date with the latest security requirements of our customers. I like IA, but there are good days and bad days just like any job.
What other jobs can you get with the same background?
The career options are really limitless. With a forensics background, one could work government, law enforcement, malware analysis. For cybersecurity, it really is limitless in research, analysis. Every industry that has an online presence requires cybersecurity.
What advice would you give to someone looking to become an IA Analyst?
Get to understand all aspects of security, not just IA. Physical security is just as important as Information Security. Be able to come up with solutions, don't just document the problems. The goal is systems that are both secure and usable for their purpose.
Any other thoughts you'd like to share?
The career is also customer-driven. We provide risk assessment for our customers, who determine how much risk they are willing to take with their assets. Be a people person as well—no isn't always the answer. Finding the right solution to their problem is the answer.
Find networking groups on LinkedIn and join a local chapter of Information Security professionals, such as Information Systems Security Association (ISSA), that meet periodically to meet and network with peers. Oftentimes recruiting agencies are members of these organizations as well and can help you find a job in the field.
Mentor others, volunteer as a Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics (STEM) mentor at your local school or educational foundation. FIRST Robotics and CyberPatriot are two great STEM-related initiatives to get involved with to encourage students to excel in STEM fields.